Newton’s endorsement profile skyrocketed with his near-unanimous MVP season. He re-upped his deals with Dannon, Gatorade and Beats last year. His Under Armour shoe is the company's best-selling football cleat. Newton also has a production deal with Nickelodeon where he produced and hosted the show All In With Cam Newton featuring the quarterback helping kids make their dreams come true. Newton was one of the numerous celebrities who bought a sliver of UFC after talent agency WME purchased the mixed martial arts promotion in 2016. Newton also holds a tiny stake in Derek Jeter’s The Players’ Tribune.

Andrew Luck has not suited up for the Indianapolis Colts yet this season while he recovers from shoulder surgery, but the Colts will still pay the QB his full $27 million in 2017, including $20 million in bonuses as part of the $123 million contract extension he signed last year. Luck’s $3 million in earnings off the field from memorabilia, appearances and endorsement partners Nike, TD Ameritrade and BodyArmor bring his total 2017 earnings to $30 million and third among NFL players.

Rounding out the top five are Oakland Raiders quarterback Derek Carr ($27.2 million) and Panthers defensive tackle Kawann Short ($26.1 million).

The NFL salary cap is up 53% over the past decade to $167 million thanks to rising revenues, largely from TV (the percentage gain would have been more if not for the NFL owners decisive win in the last labor deal; the average team earned a profit of $101 million last year). Everyone in the NFL is making more money, but no position is like the quarterback. QBs are sucking up a larger share of cap space with Stafford’s average salary at 16% of the cap compared to Peyton Manning at 13% in 2007.

Stafford was the 13th highest-rated passer in 2007. His stay as the sport’s top-paid player is not likely to last. Matt Ryan, who ranked first in passer rating last year while leading the Atlanta Falcons to the Super Bowl, will be a free agent after 2018. Ryan will command a record-breaking contract ahead of next season.

Kirk Cousins, who ranks eighth this year in earnings, presents one of the most unusual contract situations. He is playing under the franchise tag with the Washington Redskins for the second straight year. A third franchise tag would net Cousins $34.5 million in 2018.

Our earnings figures cover salary and bonuses (signing, roster, option and workout) during 2017. They also include estimated earnings from endorsements, appearances and licensing money paid by the NFL Players Association. Endorsements make up only 12% of the $296 million total for the NFL’s 10 highest-paid. Most NFL players make due with less than $100,000 in endorsement income, but a few top-tier NFL QBs can generate eight figures in off-field income.
